
In the September 2025 Nintendo direct, the final [trailer ](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=j6eNaiftiWE) was a reveal for Fire Emblem Fortune’s Weave, the upcoming Fire Emblem game on the Switch 2. My first [blog](https://cookiestew.github.io/2025/04/17/thinking-about-the-next-fire-emblem.html) was my thoughts about the next fire emblem game, and now I have some more thoughts upon seeing the first glimpse of the game.

First of all, the game looks considerably better than Three Houses did. The Character models, lighting, graphical fidelity and animations are an improvement. Im still not the biggest fan of the Three Houses art style, which still appears to be present with the character portraits, but the game's visual quality is a noticeable step up.

The character designs are also cool, especially the characters Dietrich and Leda. Dietrich, who is basically Alucard, is an over the top edgy swordsman who can teleport, and wields a sword call the Awnserer. It's a little silly, but still awesome and i can't wait to see more of him. Leda also looks super cool, and she has the ability to summon divine beasts with a guitar, which is awesome. Her voice-line in the trailer implies a dark story driven by revenge, and I'm curious to see how it plays out.

Another game taking place in the three houses universe is cool. Three houses has had decent world building and lore relative to other modern fire emblem so it's nice to return to the same world. But the question that many fans are asking is, if this game is a prequel or a sequel to three houses. It's pretty obviously set in a location that is not Fódlan, but the time period is uncertain. Adult Sothis being present doesn't necessarily rule out any possibility, as she did supposedly have an adult appearance in the past and may retain that form in the future somehow. Im not so sure when Fortune's Weave takes place myself, but I do hope that if it is a sequel, that it wont canonize any particular route of Three Houses and leaves the events of the game to be ambiguous. 

I do hope that Fortune's Weave avoids the pitfalls of Three Houses. My biggest Gripe with Three houses was the general level design was a bit boring. I also did not like that despite having 4 different routes, the first act is identical in all 4 routes and much of act 2 is reused across routes as well. Its unclear if Fortune's Weave will have different routes, there does seem to be 4 main character showcased in the trailer but this does not have to mean that the game has 4 routes. The game can instead change perspectives between the 4 different characters, which would be similar to Radiant Dawn which switched perspectives between different characters often. I do hope that no matter how the game is structured, that the level design is strong and that the game is fun to play.

I'm very excited about Fortune's Weave, and I am looking forward to playing it. I will have to buy a Switch 2 at some point, but i'll get around to it. I still have another year before this game comes out. 
